In this video, we're going to get a better idea of how Mongoose and MongoDB collaborate to set up and
use this version field stuff.
All right.
First thing I'm going to do is take a look at how Mongoose and MongoDB normally collaborate to handle
record updates.
So this is without this version flag or anything like that.
So inside of our ticket service, we might have some code that's going to fetch record CC.
Q We might then run some update on the document.
So, for example, set its price to ten or 15 or whatever else.
Well, then tell Mongoose to save the document.
And very critically, when that occurs, Mongoose is going to reach out to MongoDB and it's going to
tell MongoDB, Hey, I want you to do an update on record CPQ.
So it's going to send off some kind of request to MongoDB.
And the very critical part here is that inside this request there's something that says find the record
with ID queue and set its price to ten.
So MongoDB internally is going to look at its collection of tickets.
It's going to find a record with IDC's queue and then update its price to ten.
And that's it.
That's the entire process.
Another thing I really want to emphasize here is that in the request to update this record, there's
something that says Find specifically the record with ID.
Q So with all that in mind, let's now take a look at the same flow.
But with all this version tracking stuff enabled, we're going to see how Mongoose and MongoDB collaborate
to make sure that we only update records with the appropriate version number.
Okay.
So same kind of flow here.
But now we're imagining that this version of field thing is being incorporated or included.
Now, just, you know, this entire process that we're going through is referred to as optimistic concurrency
control.
And if you want to, you could do a quick Google search, take a look at a blog post or two and read
a little bit more about it.
The entire strategy that we're talking about here for optimistic concurrency control at MongoDB is 100%
applicable to other types of databases as well.
So what we're discussing here is not isolated to MongoDB.
This is not a MongoDB specific strategy.
You can use the strategy with many other types of databases very easily.
Okay.
So in this flow, we're going to once again fetch a record from Q, run a update on the document, save
the document, and then internally we're going to turn a setting on inside a mongoose that's going to
cause mongoose to automatically update the version field of the document automatically.
So that would be where we increment the version field from, say, 1 to 2, 2 to 3, 3 to 4 or whatever
else Mongoose is.
Then once again going to send an update request off to MongoDB.
And now, now that we are implementing this versioning stuff, here is the critical, critical difference
inside this request.
Mongoose is going to tell MongoDB to find the record with IDC's Q and a version of one and set its price
to ten.
That is the critical little step.
So whenever MongoDB tries to update a record, it's not actually going to try to compare these version
numbers and say, Hey, is this less than one or is this less than the current version number or whatever
else that doesn't actually occur?
What really happens is Mongoose is going to say, find the record with this particular ID and this particular
version.
So it's in how we find this record that's going to make sure that we select some record with the correct
Now let's imagine the scenario in which we do have a record inside of our database with an idea and
a version of one.
We would find this record right here.
It has the correct ID and the correct version, and we would set its price to ten and that's it.
Everyone is happy now.
What would happen if something goes not quite right?
Well, I'm going to roll this back and let's imagine that we accidentally process the $15 price update
first.
So that would have been the event that we discussed just a moment ago.
This one right here where we're trying to set the price to 15 and we would be looking for a record inside
of our database with a version of two because this thing has a version of three.
So in that scenario, this query right here would instead say, find the record with IDC's Q and A version
of two and set its price to 15.
Now, as you can guess, MongoDB is going to run a query over the tickets collection.
It's going to look for a record with a ID of Q and a version of two so we can look through all these
records.
And there's no record that matches that query.
There's no record with an idea.
CC Q And a version of two.
There is one with an ID Q and a version of one, but that's not what we're asking for.
We're asking for one with a version specifically of two.
And so this request right here, this update would fail and this error would be returned to our application
where we would be forced to deal with it in some fashion.
But that's it.
That is what is going on behind the scenes.
It's really all hinging upon the fact that when we send over these requests to update a record, we're
including not only the idea of the record we're trying to update, but also the version of the record
we're trying to update as well.
And that is what is used for the criteria to find the record that we're trying to make a change to.
Now, one thing you'll notice here is that this is all about updating records.
It's not about inserting records.
So the assumption is that when we first insert a record, it's always going to default to a version
of zero or one.
So we don't really run into big issues with inserting records.
Not really a big concurrency issue there.
It's a bigger issue when we're trying to update existing records.
That's when we start to get into big trouble, and that's where this version flag is going to start
to become really, really handy.
Okay.
So that's it.
That's the idea.
So as you guess, well, we have to make a little change or two to Mongoose.
We'll take a quick pause right here in the next video.
We're going to see how to actually implement this stuff in the world of Mongoose.
And we're also going to write out a test or two inside our application so you can actually write some
code and immediately start to work with this version stuff and get a better idea of what is going on
with it.